Oscar (Zheng) He
Project 2 Report

Partners: None

#1)
Trigger log_insert:
	I created a sequence that starts with 1 and increments by 1. In the trigger, each time a new row is inserted into logs, the logid will be incremented by 1 regardless of whether the logid is provided or not.

#2)
Procedure to display all tables:
	For each table, I used a cursor to get the necessary information. I then initialized arrays for each attribute. I used bulk collect from the cursors and fetched all the information into my arrays. Then I used a for loop to display all the table informations.

#3)
Procedure to add customer into customers table
	With all the customer attributes in the parameters, I just inserted it into customers with a simple query.

#4)
Procedure to display customer and accounts
	I used a cursor to get the customer name, aid and account type. This was possible by using the left join on transaction then a left join on accounts and then grouping them. This was necessary because accounts cannot be directly accessed from customers so I had to go through transaction. I got all the account information associated with the customer id into an array from the cursor. I then did all the error checking to see if the cid is valid or if no accounts are associated with the customer. If it is a valid cid, I used a for loop to display the id, name and all of its accounts.

#5)
Procedure to display account info and all of its transactions
	I used the same method as #4. However, this time the query for the cursor was much simpler.

#6)
Procedure to open an account for a customer
	This procedure gets the correct cid in a cursor. I couldn't do this in a simpler way for some reason… I kept getting errors so I resorted to use a cursor. It checks if the array that holds all the ids are empty, then the cid is invalid. Else, it inserts into accounts first, then into transaction since accounts has a foreign key in transaction.

#7)
Procedure to add a transaction to transaction table
	Once again, I kept getting weird errors using a simpler method to get the right ids for employee, customer and account so I resorted to using 3 different cursors. Once I got the right ids, I checked to see if they were valid. I also checked to see if the type given in the parameter was part of the 5 types of transactions. I also checked if a customer wanted to withdraw, then if the amount is less than or equal to the balance. If all the conditions pass, then this transaction is inserted into the transaction table.

#8)
Triggers for adding, deleting a customer and for opening an account
	I created a trigger before insert or delete on customers. Before inserting, it will insert into logs table the new customer information. Before deleting, it will insert the old customer information.
	I created a trigger on transaction. It will check if the new transaction_type is 'Open' then find the name of the customer through the query. It will then add the information into the logs table. 

Interface:
	For the interface, I created a class called DbmsOutput to output the necessary statements from the plsql code that use dbms_output.put_line. 
	It uses another class for the actual execution of the project and all of its procedures.
	For some reason, within this project, the procedures that alter the tables do not work because of the triggers present. It works normally within the sql terminal though.